baddest yen and very often in the
discussions I saw sometimes I wasn't the
only person speaking for veganism soon
as I saw other people other vegans
representing the vegan side and the
question that God asked again and again
from our side from the vegan side was
why do you feel that one moral cause is
obstructing the other why do you feel
that one is in any way presenting an
obstacle to the other like why do you
feel will be a problem for you as a gay
rights activist to represent gay rights
or pursue the the objectives of gay
rights while also at the grocery store
choosing to buy ice cream made out of
soy beans instead of ice cream made out
of cow milk again in some cases it will
be because they have a commitment to an
explicitly socialist or even communist
idea of working-class values in some
cases it will be because they feel again
even though veganism doesn't obstruct
what they want to do they would feel
that veganism Simo detracts from the
moral identity and sense of political
purpose they've crafted that it's a
different kind of claim to moral
authority but it's a different kind of
appeal to even your optimism many people
on the Left are deeply committed to the
view that these problems are impossible
to solve an impossible to ameliorate
without a revolution specifically a
proletariat revolution a proletarian
revolution I should say specifically
without the working class rising up and
destroying the infrastructure of
capitalist society they want to demonize
capitalism and blame capitalism so
another paradigm that shows you another
way forward another way to make progress
that's really meaningful jhula
meaningful in terms of ecology we're
living in form terms of ethics really
meaningful terms these kinds of outcomes
really meaningful even in terms of
oppression you know a somewhat vague
term it's interesting to see just how
threatening that is to them they feel
that if they commit to veganism or if
they commit to animal rights that this
is undermining for example
quote the proletarian struggle close
quote that a commitment to proletarian
proletarian ISM I should say is
something so important and committing to
proletarian values that it shouldn't be
challenged by something veganism know
what is meant by proletarian ism Norma
the people were into that are people who
read Socialist Worker magazine and want
to imagine there's something especially
progressive and sacrosanct about labor
unions and the average working man and
what have you guess what you know that's
really an argument just for status quo
ISM the the values of the proletariat
they are the values the status quo and
again there's a bitter irony there
because those are the values of the
status quo being valorized and
propounded as if they were revolutionary
as if they were the values of a
revolution
[Music]
baddest yen by the way in terms of the
difference your patron dollars make I
did purchase new lighting for the show
so right now this has zero lighting
there's one light bulb in the corner of
the room way over there lighting this
whole thing so that'll lower the video
quality in effect but I did actually buy
myself an LED panel light and if that's
not enough I'll buy another one or I'll
buy a ring light I am trying to get
higher quality lighting on the show
we'll see could get higher quality
microphone could do some other things
over here question came from the
audience live streaming I might as well
quote it word for word quote why is it
that intersectional feminists seems so
hostile toward vegans when they have
recently encountered it ie I think he's
saying this is not necessarily the case
that they have a long-standing
deep-seated hostility but when they're
presented with veganism it may be for
the first time or maybe kind of
unfamiliar thing for them they seem to
immediately have a lot of hostility
towards it and a lot of this hostility
revolves around veganism being so-called
quote unquote first world now I
encountered this long before I had a
youtube channel we now have over 900
videos on this YouTube channel many of
them not all of them talking about vegan
politics vegan practical philosophy it
was on tumblr back when tumblr as a
platform was really popping and tumblr
was infamous for having a lot of
so-called social justice warrior
discourse including this type of over
the hot over the top insincere reaction
from feminists and you know
intersectional left-wing activists of
various kinds
I say insincere here quite intentionally
and advisedly by contrast and I had
dialogue with these people via tumblr so
tumblr messages and commentary tumblr is
a type of blogging and social media
platform but it allows you to privately
message people also so to give an
example of someone who was stating
sincerely really sincerely the reason
for hostility I once talked to a gay man
and he had been for I think decades a
gay rights activist and he stated from
his perspective sincerely how he felt
about this
he said look he was on the side of truth
and justice and good things good and
upright moral causes for so many years
he'd worked so hard over such a long
period of time to make the world a
better place as a gay rights activist
that now he fundamentally did not care
about veal calves and cows and pigs and
chickens and vegans with their
self-righteous attitude could in plain
language go to hell now I appreciated a
sincerity I think what he was stating
sincerely and directly is what is
concealed behind a veneer with many
intersectional feminists social justice
warriors that's have a person that they
react to veganism as a moral cause
simply feeling that they have already
planted a flag they've already staked
their flagpole on some other hill and
they want that Hill to be the only hill
it also be the only moral cause and
there's a bitter irony there because the
fundamental concept of intersectional
ism is exactly supposed to challenge
that type of flagpole raising I mean if
you actually look into the philosophy
and theory of intersectional ism it's
the idea of intersecting oppressions
that hey the gay rights movement isn't
something totally separate from say the
black liberation movement that within
the United States of America you can
look at the ways in which the oppression
of black people and oppression of gay
people have some kind of dynamic there's
some kind of dynamic link between the
two from the perspective the oppressor
with the persuade of the oppressed and
in terms of the mechanics of how society
operates so they're supposed to
challenge that way of thinking and yet
veganism seems to be a mountain peak in
the same Valley and they really don't
want to be in its shadow they don't want
to feel there's more than one moral
cause here that you can you can put a
flag line so I myself directly tried to
engage in sometimes Socratic and
sometimes not so Socratic dialogue I
tried to engage in philosophical
conversations of these people who had
this kind of very hostile reaction again
more back when I was on tumblr then
since I've joined YouTube but it's
probably
happen since I've joined YouTube and
it's just not springing to mind and very
often in the discussions I saw sometimes
I wasn't the only person speaking for
veganism as I saw other people other
vegans representing the vegan side and
the question that God asked again and
again from our side from the vegan side
was why do you feel that one moral cause
is obstructing the other why do you feel
that one is in any way presenting an
obstacle to the other like why do you
feel would be a problem for you as a gay
rights activist to represent gay rights
or pursue the the objectives of gay
rights while also at the grocery store
choosing to buy ice cream made out of
soy beans instead of ice cream made out
of cow milk because right now in 2018
that's really what veganism comes down
to I have sometimes said face to face as
my professors when they said well being
a vegan must be hard I've said to them
it is exactly as hard as standing in a
convenience store and choosing the
chocolate bar that doesn't have milk in
it instead of the chocolate part that
does and they laugh I mean they get out
they get I get a laugh out of that line
I guess I presented it slightly funnier
way than my tone of voice right now it's
like well you think it's hard the next
time you go to a grocery store even a
gas station just look at the array of
chocolate bars in front you there gonna
be a couple there that don't have any
milk in it you know the one of the
reasons why they don't have dairy
ingredients of course has to do with the
fact that there are there are people who
just want black chocolate for the taste
they want the more intense flavor of
dark chocolate but also of course there
are people who are lactose intolerant I
don't think most of those chocolate bars
they're not being made for a vegan
market but still it's there it's
available to us and so it's not that
hard but anyway this some this challenge
of asking why do you think one obstructs
the other why do you think one presents
a barrier to the other was then very
difficult for them to reply to you and I
think it's probably cuz it hits nail on
the head that is how they feel they feel
that if they commit to veganism or if
they can
to animal rights that this is
undermining for example quote the
proletarian struggle close quote
that a commitment to proletarian
proletarian ism I should say is
something so important and committing to
proletarian values that it shouldn't be
challenged by somebody being innocent
know what is meant by proletarian ism
normally the people were into that are
people who read Socialist Worker
magazine and want to imagine there's
something especially progressive and
sacrosanct about labor unions and the
average working man and what have you
now this goes back to give an example
when Lenin the dictator Vladimir Ilich
Lenin when he wanted to justify setting
up repressive laws governing human
sexual behavior in Russia he did so by
saying that he was embracing proletarian
values that working-class values were
not of sleeping around or having the
freedom to divorce your wife or
something that he wasn't forcing Russia
under communist to go back to Catholic
about certain part mission as a Catholic
Eastern Orthodox values Christian values
he wasn't that this was somehow a
standard different from Christianity was
simply appealing to the values of the
proletariat of the working man now
that's a rabbit hole many left wingers
go down of trying to lionize and
valorize what happened to be
working-class values if you live in a
Christian country look at the United
States of America or Christian country
like Russia in the year 1917 when Lenin
is taking over power in 1917 or even the
1920s or what have you you know guess
what you know that's really an argument
just for status quo ISM the the values
of the proletariat share the values the
status quo and again there's a bitter
irony there because those are the values
of the status quo being valorized and
propounded as if they were revolutionary
as if they were the values of a
revolution earlier today I got a message
back on facebook in Chinese from a guy
I've been writing to in Chinese he's a
vegan activist in Taiwan he's a very
sincere vegan activist but when I wrote
to him in Chinese he was really shocked
by my using words like
well activism in Chinese it's a
political sense of activism and struggle
and social struggle talked about
veganism being a struggle for the the
future of of society and this kind of
thing and he wrote to me in Chinese
saying look why do you why do you use
these kind of terms look why you know
why is it a struggle why are you saying
it's a political struggle and so on
anyway and I sent him a link to one of
my videos that's in Chinese Aveda the
siser subtitled Chinese and then he
wrote back saying oh okay like now I see
your point of view you know you're
talking about veganism well he said
literally Chinese you're talking about
vegan food as a kind of revolution a
vegan revolutions interesting thing for
him to say and he said for his part that
he also felt that he was in a struggle
you know for the future of mankind the
future of his culture for the future of
status of veganism society but you know
I just point out there's nothing
ineluctably and self-evidently
political about veganism most people
regard veganism as some sorry I've got
some vegan cookbooks around here uh
sorry they're too far for me to bring
them on camera they view veganism as a
lifestyle as a dietary choice as
something that only exists in you know
as a type of restaurant or what have you
and it's interesting that these people
who hate us so much from the
intersectional feminist side of things
the social justice Wars I think they're
actually in the tiny minority who are
perceiving veganism and reacting to
veganism initially and immediately as a
rival political movement as another peak
in that valley as another flagpole and
they don't want to be in a shadow and
they don't want to have to they don't
want have to deal with it and again in
some cases it will be because they have
a commitment to an explicitly socialist
or even communist idea of working-class
values in some cases it will be because
they feel again even though veganism
doesn't obstruct what they want to do
they would feel that veganism Simo
detracts from the moral identity and
sense of political purpose they've
crafted that it's a different kind of
claim to moral authority but it's a
different kind of appeal to even your
optimum
in having a better future that it's a
different kind of so for example within
ecology sorry this is a story I've told
on my youtube channel before but very
very briefly I once went to a lecturer I
guess you could say or a seminar on the
future of electricity generation of
electricity in Ontario and obviously the
ecology the ecological problems of that
and one of the men speaking at the
seminar stated just as a matter of fact
that quote we were all socialists close
quote like they assumed everyone in the
room was a socialist and that therefore
everyone in the room would agree that
really the problem of pollution and
power generation wouldn't be solved
until there was a revolution in which
the working class rose up and took
ownership of the means of production
away from from the wealthy from
government and this is hilarious to me
heyyo I think I was probably the
youngest person and that seminar talked
about a generational change in politics
many people on the Left are deeply
committed to the view that these
problems are impossible to solve an
impossible to ameliorate without a
revolution specifically a proletariat
revolution a proletarian revolution I
should say specifically without the
working class rising up and destroying
the infrastructure of capitalist society
they want to demonize capitalism and
blame capitalism so another paradigm
that shows you another way forward
another way to make progress that's
really meaningful jhula meaningful in
terms of ecology we're living in full
terms of ethics really meaningful terms
these kinds of outcomes really
meaningful even in terms of oppression
you know a somewhat vague term it's
interesting to see just how threatening
that is to them but the flipside is
again my colleague in China he thinks of
he is a vegan activist and yet he
doesn't think of veganism as political
struggle these people who are our
opponents and our enemies from the
feminine intersectional feminist
intersectional social justice worse it's
still worthwhile to note that they at
least start off on a common footing with
us of seeing us as vegans as a rival
social cause a rival political
while so many others like my Chinese
friend even when they're inside veganism
they can't see that social and political
element to it and certainly plenty of
meat eaters go to eat donuts at a vegan
bakery or go to vegan sausages at a
vegan restaurant and the last thing on
their minds is that they are a part of
or supporting or being exposed to what
is actually a political message or what
is in many ways part of the fabric of an
ongoing political movement a badess yen